Okay, so let's talk about
the solution to our exercise_5a,
which was discussing unit tests.
And in Part 1,
we're writing a test that's gonna validate
our Add method that we created
in the math.go package.
So we look at the math.go package,
our function here, function Add,
it takes a series of numbers,
adds them together, spits out a total,
all of which are integers.
So if we are following
the convention in our utils file,
we're going to create a new file.
And let's call that add_test.go.
Cool, add test.go file will
want a couple different things.
First of all, we needed to match
the package that we're working with.
And so
right now we're in the utils package.
And the imports that we want here
is just that testing library.
For the func,
we're gonna call it TestAdd and
that takes one argument
which is the lower case t.
And the type is testing.t which is
coming from that testing library.
And so within here we wanna set up a
couple of variables, expected and actual.
And so you think about working
with this Add mathematical method,
let’s say, if I called utilits.add and
pass in 2 and
2, my actual resulting value should be 4.
So then to make it an assertion,
excuse me, I wanna say hey,
if the actual value does not
equal the expected value,
I wanna send an error
to our testing library.
We're gonna write some sort of message,
Add function does not add up.
And I'll give it some
information like the,
Expected was %d for an integer and
the actual is also a %d.
And then the two variables
we're going to pass through for
those values are, expected and actual.
Down on my terminal,
you'll notice that I ran go test and
I get this error,
no Go files in it toolkit.
So I need to navigate to the actual
directory where my test lives before
I can run Go test.
So I navigated to our code directory and
then the utils package,
which is where our test file lives so
far and ran go test.
We're still seeing those print lines that
actually live in our Add function but
we're also seeing this PASS and the ok.
Indicating that our test is passed.
Let's say we change this to
6 just to see the test fail.
If I run my test again,
you'll see Add function does not add up,
we expected a 6, we actually got a 4.
So it gives you a little bit of
information of what your test result it
looks like.
Let's move that back to a 4 and
work on Part 2.
So we go back to exercise_5a,
Part 2 is to go the opposite direction.
We're gonna create a file
called strings_test.go and
paste in this kind of starter
code down at the bottom,
which is a test that looks like
it's doing some stuff to a string.
So we're gonna copy this.
And in the same utils file,
create a New File
called strings_test.go, paste in our test.
[COUGH] So you'll notice already,
I'm getting some linter errors, but
let's walk through what's
happening in our tests first.
So looks like we have a test
called TestMakeExcited.
It takes in that default t,
that's coming from our testing library.
The expected is a all caps version of
a string with an exclamation point.
And the actual is a function, capital M,
MakeExcited, that takes in some string
that has all lowercase letters and
no exclamation point.
Then we have our assertion block here at
the end, where if the actual doesn't match
the expected, we wanna print out
kinda what those things were.
If I run go test now,
we're going to see undefined: MakeExcited.
This makes sense,
we haven't written that function yet, so
that's what we'll need to do next.
So, let's go ahead and
make a strings.go file,
And this is still living
in our package utils.
And according to our tests, we need
a function that's called MakeExcited.
We circle back to
the test just to confirm,
it looks like MakeExcited accepts our
single string, so we're gonna say,
it accepts some sentence
that is a string type.
Cool, and then it should give us back,
it's supposed to return an actual string.
So we know that we need to add the return
type here and write some code inside this.
So right now,
it's kind of a trick question, there are a
couple of things we need to do in here to
make a string go from all lower case
letters to all upper case letters.
And if you were to dig into
kinda the documentation,
you might have found that there
a package called strings.
And so we can import the strings
package from Go, and then use it.
And so in our function here,
we can say we want to take our,
we're gonna return that formatted
version of this string,
that's all capitals with
the exclamation point.
So using our strings package,
there's a function called ToUpper
that takes a string and it turns it into
an uppercase version of that string.
The last thing that we wanted to do
was append on the exclamation point,
which we can do with concatenation.
And return it at the end of the day.
S is short for sentence, so we'll make
sure that that matches right there.
And then again, because we're exporting
this function we need to make sure we have
a comment, Transforms a sentence
to all caps with an exclamation point.
Cool?
If we run our tests, we'll see that
we now have a passing test and
implementation to the code,
code implementation to the test file.